- Focus Bear was created as founder Jeremy Nagel was experiencing difficulties sticking to his routines and using his time as he'd planned due to his AuDHD. To solve his problems, he created Focus Bear to consolidate features of other apps that were best suited to his needs and reduce the impact of his AuDHD letting him do the things he wanted to do.
- Focus Bear seeks to solve problems faced by neurodivergent people particularly focusing on improving their productivity, punctuality and peace of mind. To do this it features functions to block distractions, reinforce habits and routines and sets reminders for breaks and appointments.
- Neurodivergent people face problems which have large impacts on their lives, these problems may be difficult to describe or solve without aid especially when viewed from outside perspectives. Focus Bear's mission is important as it provides another option for neurodivergents to mitigate the impacts their condition may cause and take better control of their lives as they would like to.
- I feel Focus Bear's work aligns with my own values and interests as I also have an interest in autism, ADHD and other neurodivergent conditions and ways to combat the problems caused by those conditions. I am also interested in the cybersecurity aspect given that is the subject of my internship and would like to contribute to protecting a vulnerable population.
- I do personally relate to some of the problems Focus Bear aims to solve and hope to also learn from the company and improve on my personal circumstances over the duration of this internship.
