Research & Learn
- Vulnerable populations are people who are at higher risk compared to the overall population, some of these include children and elderly, people with disability or neurodivergent conditions and racial, sexual, gender minorities. In the digital space they might face increased difficulties with completing tasks they want to do or are required of them and experience difficulty with seeking help they may require.
- When designing for or working with neurodivergent individuals some ethical considerations are important to ensure the experience of the user is accommodating. Avoid overwhelming the user with information (including visual and auditory), communicate information clearly to ensure understanding, allow some degree of freedom for users to control settings or other parts of the app.
- Interactions and content can be made more accessible for people with ADHD or autism by using clear, simple language, keeping navigation and use predictable and familiar and reducing cognitive load by limiting the amount of information that is presented to the user at any time.
- In a professional setting neurodivergent team members can be supported by being clear in communication to avoid confusion, being respectful of each other's working styles and habits and being accommodating and flexible when working with them.

Reflection
- Adjusting my communication style to be clearer can make it more inclusive for neurodivergent users and teammates.
- Common UX or communication pitfalls that might make Focus Bear less accessible or supportive would be things such as overwhelming information or unclear or confusing communication.
- One practical change I can make in my work to better support vulnerable populations would be communicating in a clear and concise manner with others to ensure understanding and minimise confusion.

Tasks
- People with ADHD or autism may make use of productivity tools to manage their symptoms to be more productive and complete their tasks, different tools may be suited for different people so some experimentation may be required to find one that fits. An effective productivity tool might help with tracking tasks while keeping the user focused on their current one to reduce multitasking and improve focus, having audio cues can also help keep users focused or remind them of the time. (Source: https://www.focusbear.io/blog-post/review-of-llama-life-by-an-audhder)
- Focus Bear could improve the way it introduces its functions to make it more accessible to users. Doing it in stages with explanations at each stage might help prevent overwhelming users.
- Problems with executive functioning is a significant challenge, but there are ways to manage it and be able to accomplish what you want to. Try setting up routines, start small, one thing you would like to accomplish in the morning and one at night, increasing when you feel comfortable. This should help provide structure, consistency and predictability which are all beneficial to overcoming executive functioning. When faced with large complex task try breaking them down into smaller and ordered tasks to help understanding and reduce choice paralysis. Alternatively, when overwhelmed with options go by intuition or limit the number of them by being stricter or with preparation. It is difficult to navigate life while dealing with problems with executive functioning, but it doesn't necessarily need to be debilitating, trying strategies and seeking help to manage it can be effective and have noticeable improvements on one's life.
