Research & Learn
- Examples of professional and unprofessional behaviour in a casual work environment would be respectful communication, punctual to meetings and cooperative teamwork as opposed to rude communication, tardy or unexplained absences in meetings and uncooperative teamworking.
- In a remote team, respectful communication would mostly be done through messages or videos. When communicating, the tone of the message should be formal and friendly, depending on the content it may also be assertive or urgent but should not be aggressive. Disagreements should be handled with clear communication between parties establishing their stances and perspectives to identify the core of the disagreement, they should then cooperate to resolve the disagreement or seek others (ideally superiors) to settle the matter. When responding to feedback be courteous and accepting, if the feedback is helpful or constructive consider letting the other party know.
- To give and receive feedback professionally focus on the actions and consequences rather than the people responsible, assume the other party acted with good intentions and ask for clarification if unclear rather than acting accusatorially or defensively.

Reflection
- I have experienced great teamwork and professionalism; it was effective due to all members understanding their roles and clearly communicating their status during a project. Disagreements and feedback quickly worked through and settled thus minimum disruption.
- To make sure my communication is clear, respectful and inclusive I can make efforts in considering and reviewing the tone and manner of my messages and words before I communicate and after for the future.
- I can help create a positive, fun and professional work environment by aligning my communication and interactions with others with those qualities.
- I can prepare effectively for meetings with supervisors and colleagues by being punctual, focused and ready to take notes. I should prepare what I am sharing and questions I would like answered.
- Being proactive in my internship would mean providing regular updates, finding answers myself before asking teammates or supervisors and escalating forms of messaging rather than waiting for too long.
- When reaching out colleagues or superiors I would start with emails or Discord messages if I need information or action from them. If the matter is urgent, I would escalate to SMS or calling as required.
- I will not be idle or non-communicative when working on tasks, updating others on my status, responding to feedback or when urgent action is required. I will not be unprepared for meetings or note taking. I will avoid asking questions before attempting to find answers myself and I will not communicate in an unclear manner.
